178 massa web3 page (#182)
massalabs/docs: docs/build/massa-web3/backend-usage-massa-web3.mdx

---
id: backend-usage-massa-web3
title: Backend Usage
---

> If you need to interact with the Massa network for your backend, you can use the Massa Web3 API without the wallet provider. Therefore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to interact with the Massa network for your backend, you can use the Massa Web3 API without the wallet provider.
```

> you will need to write your secret key directly in your code. Initialization of the client is shown in the [introduction](/docs/build/massa-web3#without-wallet-provider)

Reviewer: Is it really how you would do it ? It would probably be passed as an environment variable or something more complex (not expert). I think it gives a wrong impression.

I might be wrong.

> you will need to pass the secret keys as environment variables. Initialization of the client is shown in the [introduction](/docs/build/massa-web3#without-wallet-provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialization of the client is shown in the [introduction](/docs/build/massa-web3#without-wallet-provider)
```

of the Massa Web3.

## Wallet & Account Management

> Methods available such as creating or importing an account, getting account information, sending transactions, signing

Reviewer: I don't understand the context ? What do you want to say here ?

messages, etc.

A [complete example](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3/blob/main/examples/wallet/index.ts) of how to use the Wallet
API is also available.

> You can find also find the full typescript documentation [here](https://web3.docs.massa.net/classes/WalletClient.html).

Reviewer 2: "find also find" => "also find"

## Private and Public API

> All the node operations are available through the private API, typescript documentation can be found [here](https://web3.docs.massa.net/classes/PrivateApiClient.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the operations needed to manage a node are available through the private API. The corresponding Typescript documentation can be found [here](https://web3.docs.massa.net/classes/PrivateApiClient.html).
```

> Getting information about the blockchain can be done through the public API, typescript documentation can be found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reading the state of the blockchain can be done through the public API. The corresponding Typescript documentation can be found
```
